For our sermon scripture, the Bible says, say unto them, as I live, sayeth the Lord, God, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked.
But that the wicked turn from his way and live, turn ye, turn ye, from your evil ways, for why will you die, O house of Israel?
Our sermon, this Sabbath, is entitled When God Speared Not.
When God's spirit not, let's pray, Father God, we thank you for this opportunity to study a word.
And I just ask, Lord, that you make me a nail on the wall, a rusty, sorry nail, Lord.
And upon that nail, I ask that you hang a portrait of Jesus Christ.
And this holiday season, especially, Lord, we want to come and adore you, lift you up and worship you for the great savior you are.
This is our prayer in Jesus's name.
Amen.
So in the Bible, there is this concept around how God wants to treat his people.
As you all know, Earth is in a state of rebellion against God.
God's spirit will not always strive with this planet because of this state of rebellion.
And as our scripture reading says, Ezekiel 3311, God says, as I live, saith the Lord God, God has no pleasure in the death
of the wicked.
Somebody ought to say amen.
He says, but that the wicked turn from his evil way and live, turn ye, turn ye from your evil ways.
God wants us to turn and live.
The story that kind of sums this up is one in Genesis chapter 18.
We'll be here for a little while in Genesis 18.
The Bible has Abraham sitting and three men come to visit him.
We know from the story that these are celestial beings
two angels and one of them is the pre-incarnate Christ, meaning this is Jesus appearing on earth before Bethlehem, before being born in a manger.
Verse seven, verse a 16 says, and the men rose up from hence and looked towards Sodom and Abraham went with them to bring them on the way.
The Lord said, shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do?
seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him.
Abraham was so close to God that when God was about to do something, he actually contemplated, should I talk with Abraham about this?
That's the closeness God and Abraham had.
Now here's where this gets interesting.
I want to submit to you that the study of prophecy in the Bible is God telling us
like he told Abraham.
Amen.
So when I hear churches say, you know, we don't study prophecy anymore.
We don't look at beasts anymore.
They are disconnecting with God at a point where he wants to be your friend as we'll see verse 19.
For I know him that he will command his children in his household after him.
And they shall keep the way of the Lord to do justice and judgment that the Lord may bring upon Abraham that which he had spoken of him.
So he knew Abraham would do well.
And remember, this is before Abraham actually starts to do well.
Verse 18, chapter 18 of verse 20 says, and the Lord said, because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great and because there's sin is very grievous.
God says, I will go down now and see whether they have done all together according to the cry of it, which has come unto me.
And if not, I will know.
So God says, listen,
I've heard about what's going on in Sodom.
Sin there is terrible, but God does not do judgment without first do, I mean, does not pour out penalty without first doing a judgment, without doing an assessment.
This is partly why we as Adventists believe in what we call a pre-investigative judgment.
Here is an example in the Bible of such a thing happening.
God, the sin had come to heaven, but he said, no, I'm going to go and assess this for myself.
That's what is being done in the most holy place right now for planet earth.
And the men turn their faces from thence and went towards Sodom, but Abraham stood yet before the Lord.
So the two angels leave and the Lord, the pre-incarnate Christ,
is left alone with Abraham.
And this interesting conversation takes place.
Genesis 18 23 says, and Abraham drew near and said, will you also destroy the righteous with the wicked?
So Abraham, now remember Abraham has a vested interest in Sodom.
Remember that when he and Lot separated, Lot chose the fertile land that faced toward the city.
And maybe there was some urban sprawl or maybe Lot moved into the city, but before long, Lot was in the city.
I would imagine at some point, Abraham visited Lot in Sodom and he knew the condition of the city, but he did not want his family to die if something was going to happen to Sodom.
And so he says, wait a minute, will you destroy the righteous with the wicked hoping
Don't miss this.
That his own family will be that righteous that saves the city.
I look at verse 24 per adventure, there'll be 50 righteous within the city without also destroy and not spare the place for the 50 righteous that are there in Abraham says, listen, if there's just 50 good folk of the thousands of people who live in Sodom, will you save the city?
Seems like a reasonable request.
Very small percentage, but he's trying.
So here's the question.
And it's important to how we end the sermon as well.
Who are the righteous?
Who constitutes the righteous?
And Genesis actually answers this.
If you go back a few chapters to Genesis chapter 15 in verse five, it says, and he brought forth abroad and said, look not toward heaven,
and tell the stars if I'll be able to number them."
And he said unto him, so shall thy seed be.
So the pre-incarnate Christ again takes Abraham out, shows him the stars and says, if you can look up at the stars, can you number the stars?
Verse six, he says, and your seed, your offspring will be like all those countless stars in the sky.
Look at verse six.
The Bible says, and he believed in the Lord, Abraham did, and he counted it to him for righteousness.
Oh, I don't miss this.
Abraham had done nothing yet to prove righteousness.
Don't miss it.
In fact, Abraham was still going to say Sarah was his sister and kind of half lie to get out of trouble.
He was still going to take Hagar as a wife and have Ishmael when they should have had faith.
Abraham had not yet arrived.
He was on what I call a character climb, but God credited him.
Look at, look at how the New Testament says it.
This is who's the righteous Romans four, three.
For what sayeth the scripture?
Abraham believed God and it was counted unto him for righteousness.
Galatians 3-6, even as Abraham believed God and it was accounted to him for righteousness.
My favorite one comes from James, James 2 and verse 23.
It says this.
And the scripture was fulfilled which sayeth, Abraham believed God and it was imputed unto him for righteousness.
And look at this.
And he was called
the friend of God.
That word imputed is a word that means you get credit for something in advance.
In other words, you get credit for what someone else has done in a sense.
The word imputed is important.
Abraham believed God and he was given credit.
In other words, it's like he was given a preloaded card with money on it.
He had not yet done the work to deserve the reward.
But he was given the reward upfront.
Church, this is a key important doctrine.
It is righteousness by faith.
I want to submit to you that some of you worry.
You think, well, I'm not right enough.
I'm not good enough.
Here's the truth.
The truth is in your own power, you will never be good enough.
The truth is the devil wants you to focus on what you did, on where you were, the worst you ever were in your life, that affair you had, that crime you committed.
He wants you to go back to that.
But let me tell you something.
The truth of the matter is this.
The God of heaven has already charged your account with righteousness based on how his son performed.
but you have to believe and accept it.
So let's go back to the story.
Verse 25, we're at 50.
Then he says, that be far from thee to do after this man and to slay the righteous with the wicked and that the righteous should be as the wicked.
That be far from thee shall not the judge of all the earth do right.
I mean, Abraham was getting bold with God.
Like, are you the judge of the earth?
You should do the right thing.
Verse 26, and the Lord said, if I find in Sodom,
50 righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sakes.
God said I'll spare the city if they're just 50 righteous people.
Now this is where Abraham gets in trouble.
Abraham probably did Thanksgiving at Lot's house one year and he remembers the condition that at city said, I'm not sure there's 50 people in that whole city.
He probably starts counting his family.
Lot, Lot's daughters.
Lot's sons and law, he thought count his family, hoping that they would be righteous.
And when he, as he counts, he realized I can't get to 50.
So Abraham answered and said in verse 27, behold now I have taken upon me to speak unto the Lord, which am but dust and ashes.
Verse 28, per adventure they shall, there shall lack five of the 50 righteous.
Will you destroy the city for the lack of five?
He said, okay, maybe there's not 50, but what if there's 45 of them?
God said, well, for 45, I'll not destroy it.
Abraham started counting again.
He said, well, I think 45 people right in that city.
And he's making them again and said, per adventure, there shall be 40 found there.
And he said, I won't do it for 40.
And then Abraham says, oh, let not the Lord be angry.
And I will speak per adventure.
You'll find just 30.
Now he starts dropping by tens.
He says, I won't do it for 30.
And Abraham starts to smile.
Ooh, even 30 is not a good number, but that's tough.
He says, and he said, behold now, I have taken upon me, Abraham says, to speak unto the Lord.
What if there's just 20?
God said, I will not destroy the city for the sake of just 20.
Why is this, this is relevant to today when you see the disasters that happened in the world.
I want to submit to you that there are cities still standing because they are just 10 or 20 righteous people in them.
There are cities in the world today that are still standing.
And here's the thing, as that righteous few leaves those cities or die off, whatever happens, I'm telling you in the next 20 years, you are going to see cities begin to implode from a number of sources.
God is holding back true judgment on some of our cities because they're just a few handful, just a few righteous in those cities.
Verse 32.
and Abraham makes his final pitch here.
Oh, let not the Lord be angry and I will speak yet, but this once, what if there's just 10 Lord?
What if it's just 10?
God said, I will not destroy it for 10 sake.
If there's just 10 in the city, I won't destroy the city.
Church, we've got to be that 10.
We got to be a light where we are.
Then the Bible says in verse 33, and the Lord went his way as soon as he had left communing with Abraham, and Abraham returned unto his place.
I want to submit to you that God said he would spare the city for the sake of 10, but there are five times in the Bible when God spared not.
Five times.
Important to notice, keep track of it.
There are lessons in each example.
Five times God spared not.
Number one, we just talked about it.
The cities of Lot, the Sodom and Gomorrah, and the other small cities of the valley.
Second Peter 2, and if you read all of Second Peter 2, you get most of the sermon out of this chapter of Second Peter 2.
Second Peter 2, 6 says this, and turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes, condemned them with an overthrow, making them an example unto those that should after live ungodly.
The Bible says that Sodom and Gomorrah were not spared.
They weren't spared.
because they couldn't find 10 righteous people in the city.
Here's what the Bible says.
Look at Ezekiel 16, 49 and 50.
We often think we know what the sins of Sodom and Gomorrah are.
The Bible actually gives you a much better picture here in Ezekiel 16.
It says this, behold, this was the iniquity of your sister Sodom.
What was the number one sin of Sodom?
Pride.
Isn't it interesting and now pride is,
a big thing, it has a month, it has all this stuff.
The sin of Sodom, the number one sin was what?
Pride.
Number two, fullness of bread.
And number three, an abundance of idleness was in her.
They had nothing to do.
They were living so good.
And in her daughters, neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and the needy.
Look at verse 50.
And they were haughty and committed abomination before me.
Therefore I took them away as I saw good.
Their pride, their lack of concern for others all added up so that in the end they committed an abominations that God said, I can't allow to go on.
Ellen White says this, manuscript 233, she says this.
All pride in human agencies is a direct affront to God.
All exaltation of self is displeasing to God.
Men claim to themselves the honor of wisdom, which honor belongs wholly to God and came from God.
Man originates, what?
Nothing.
God will abase all who rob him of his glory.
Pride goes before destruction and a hearty spirit before a fall.
I love this last part.
Better is it to be of a humble spirit with the lowly than to divide the spoil with the proud.
L. Y.
Goes On is another one.
This is from Testimonies for the Church, Volume 4, speaking about pride.
Here it is.
Those among Sabbath keepers who have yielded to the influence of the world are to be tested.
The perils of the last days are upon us and a trial is before the professed people of God, which many have not anticipated.
The genuineness of their faith will be proved.
Many have united with worldlings in pride.
Vanity.
and pleasure seeking, flattering themselves that they could do this and still be Christians.
Watch this.
She says, but it is such indulgences that separate them from God and make them children of the world.
Christ has given no such example.
Those only who deny self and live a life of sobriety, humility, and holiness are true followers of Jesus.
and such cannot enjoy the society of the lovers of the world.
Listen, we've got to be careful.
We do not allow pride to creep into our hearts, into our churches, and we get the wrong mind.
You can't fall in love with the world.
We've got to have a disdain for the things of the world, or we will become like the people of Sodom.
Luke 17 28 says this likewise also, as it was in the days of lot, they did eat, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they build it.
But the same day that lot went out of Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all.
Even thus shall it be in the day when the son of man is revealed.
And then Jesus gives you this short verse here.
Remember lots.
wife.
She was supposed to be in that 10 righteous.
But her love for Sodom and its society and the people of Sodom, the designer ways, the fancy things, she was so enamored by them that when she should have left Sodom and not thought of it again, it wasn't just that her body turned back or eyes turned back, her heart was turned back.
Remember, Lot's wife.
So number one, the first time God spared not, were not spared because of their pride that led to sin.
Number two, the nation of Israel.
The nation of Israel was not spared.
There it is.
Romans 11, 20 says, well, because of unbelief, they were broken off and thou standest by faith.
They were broken off.
You Christians, you stand by faith.
That's how you're here.
He says, be not high-minded.
There's pride again, but fear.
Here it is.
For if God spared not the natural branches, take heed, lest he also spare not thee.
My Bible says, listen, they got high-minded, right?
Because of unbelief, they were broken off.
Then Paul says,
If God did not spare the natural branches, meaning those with the genetic tie all the way back to righteous, faithful Abraham.
He said, be careful or else he won't spare you either.
So why was the nation?
So we start off with the cities, the cities of Saddam Hussein.
Now we jump to a nation.
Why was the nation of Israel not spared?
Here it is.
It was there eight, one, set the trumpet to your mouth.
He shall come as an eagle against the house of the Lord.
because they have transgressed my covenant and trespassed against my law.
The people of God began to reject God's law.
Israel shall cry unto me, God, my God, we know thee.
Israel has cast off the thing that is good.
The enemy shall pursue him.
And in Hosea 812 says, I have written to him the great things of my law.
Watch this, but they were counted as a what?
As a strange thing.
For Israel have forgotten his maker and build temples and Judah have multiple, multiplied fence cities, but I will send a fire upon his cities and it shall devour the palaces thereof.
This prophecy is fulfilled probably in its greatest completion or greatest fulfillment when the Roman general comes and in 8070 completely destroys Jerusalem.
That's Titus.
But why did it happen?
It happened because the people of Israel, and here's the thing, we are now spiritual Israel.
But the people of Israel began to not believe, they began to not take the commandment seriously.
This is the folly of modern Christendom, where the Bible says in the fourth commandment, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy, and speaks of the seventh day, yet most Christians reject the law of God.
And because of that rejection, my Bible tells me they will not be spared.
You cannot play with God's law.
Ellen White says it like this, prophets in Kings page 296.
The apostasy of Israel had developed gradually from generation to generation.
Satan had made repeated attempts to cause the chosen nation to forget the commandments, the statutes,
and the judgments that they had promised to keep forever.
For he knew, watch this, for he knew that if he could only lead Israel to forget God and to walk after other gods and serve them and worship them, they would surely perish.
Israel was cut off.
And so it's interesting when you look at the politics of today,
There's so much attention on the modern nation of Israel, but it is not biblical.
In no regard is it biblical.
I want you to understand that.
There's no reason for us to be concerned about building a third temple in Israel today when Christ is ministering on our behalf in the heavenly sanctuary.
Why do I need, and I've even read where some of these folk are talking about, they're going to bring back the sacrifice of bulls and lambs and goats in this new,
temple in Israel.
What then was the sacrifice of Christ?
But she says that this apostasy developed gradually from generation to generation.
And that's what we've seen.
And let me just be playing.
Even in Adventism we've seen this.
We have watched it where if you went back 30 years, it wouldn't matter what the people in the church looked like.
There was a certain sacredness to the service.
Instead now, we are endangered in many ways because a kind of a neopentecostalism has spread into our churches and we have begun to do like the world does.
We have people in pulpits speaking politics rather than prophecy.
And from generation to generation, things become norm to the point where now you can go to churches and there are coffee machines and a special machines in the lobby.
And we don't understand that you got to hold up the standards that we've been given.
Every one of them is important.
Listen, you heard,
the health nugget today, how powerful that was.
Do you know that there are many a pulpit in America right now where the person preaching will mock the health message and not support it?
It comes from generation to generation.
Parents, you are to be the stopgap.
Make sure your children are aware of what we believe and why we believe it.
It's a number one.
When God spared not number one, Solomon Gamar were cities.
They were not spared because of their pride that led to sin.
Number two, Israel was not spared because she broke the covenant and forgot God.
Number three, this time it's the whole world.
So city, nation, the whole world, the old, the antediluvian world.
And when we use the word antediluvian, it means the world before the flood, Noah's flood, which there's great evidence for what we'll maybe talk about another time.
But here's what the Bible says.
Genesis six and verse 11 says,
The earth also was corrupt before God and the earth was filled with what?
Violence.
Know that violence, God does not cannot stand.
And they had become so violent that it reached to heaven.
These were very much physically and maybe even intellectually stronger, smarter people than we are today.
And yet they were so corrupted.
Look at verse 12.
It says, and God looked upon the earth and behold it was corrupt.
for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth.
And God said unto Noah, the end of all flesh has come before me.
Why is God going to destroy?
Why were they not spared?
Here it is.
For the earth is filled with violence through them.
And behold, I will destroy them with the earth.
Violence.
If I had time, I'd have put up the slides on this.
I can show you the slides where mass shootings have gone up like this.
You look at the tenor of killing in the world.
It has also gone up.
The Second World War is the deadliest war in human history.
I think 100 million people died in the Second World War or something like that.
I think 20 million Chinese, 30 million Russians.
We don't even think about that.
We often, we often and appropriately think about the six million Jews, but Europe was devastated and the war reached around the world.
This kind of violence, when you read Roger Mernold's book, A Trip into the Supernatural, he says that when he worshiped in the demon temple, and he comes out of demon worship and becomes an Adventist in the book if you've ever read it, but one thing he says that's really fascinating is that when the demons
When a war is going on, the demons stand on the sidelines as the slaughter is happening and the demons laugh.
They double over laughing, watching humanity kill itself.
Violence, God cannot stand.
Eloise says this, the inhabitants of the Noetian
world, the world of Noah before the flood, the inhabitants of the Noecian world were destroyed because they were corrupted through the indulgence of perverted appetites.
And then she says this, they worshiped selfish indulgence, eating, drinking and merry making and resorted to acts of violence and crime if their desires and passions were interfered with.
I grew up listening to hip hop music and I can tell you one of the things that they glorified was criminality to get what you want.
And now this has become part of culture.
And it was a time when if you went into urban America back in the 80s and 90s, preachers were on the streets marching, selling in inner city America saying, we've got to stop the tide of drugs and crime.
They used to go out and say, we need to have peace in our neighbors.
They used to protest the very music the rappers were making.
Now they protest the police.
The whole thing has been flipped on its head.
Nobody, crime, we can just, we don't have to worry about crime.
This kind, this attitude is an attitude that actually is going to lead to one of the reasons why God said, listen, this can't go on any longer.
So number one, the city, Sodom and Gomorrah were not spared because of their pride and led to sin.
Israel not spared because they broke the covenant, forgot God.
Number three, the world before the flood was not spared because of perverted appetite and violence.
But number four,
The fallen angels, the entire universe was impacted on this one, the entire universe.
Look at second Peter chapter two and verse four.
It says, for if God speared not the angels that sinned, but cast them down to hell and delivered them into chains of darkness to be reserved unto judgment.
My Bible says that when there was rebellion in heaven, God did not spear the angels that rebelled.
They were cast out.
And look at what it says.
It says down to hell, meaning the under parts, not a burning hell, and delivered them into chains of darkness.
They're not in hell burning now.
And the verse tells you that because it says to be reserved unto judgment.
They were cast out of heaven and to be separated from God in a very spiritual way is hell.
So they were cast out.
Reserve for judgment.
Jesus says it like this, Luke 10 or 18.
Jesus said, he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven.
Satan and his angels were cast out.
Matthew 25 41 says, then shall, then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, depart from me.
He cursed into everlasting fire.
Who was that fire prepared for?
For the devil and his angels.
Watch this.
You have no business.
winding up in the lake of fire.
There is no spot reserved for you in the lake of fire.
The lake of fire has been reserved for the devil and his angels.
And watch this, what Paul says is that in fact, what's reserved for you is a crown in glory.
How we live our lives means we make a decision as to whether or not we will accept the crown or go and join the demons where they belong.
I don't want to be sitting next to no demon in hell.
I want to be in heaven with you all rocking my crown.
I don't want to go down there.
There's no spot for you there.
Otherwise says this in the book confrontation page 21, the divine son of God saw that no arm, but his own could save fallen man.
And he determined to help man.
He left the fallen angels to perish in their rebellion, but stretch forth his hand to rescue perishing man.
The angels who were rebellious were dealt with according to the light and experience they had abundantly enjoyed in heaven.
Satan, the chief of the fallen angels, once had an exalted position in heaven.
He was next in honor to Christ.
The knowledge which he, as well as the angels who fell with him, had of the character of God, of his goodness, his mercy, wisdom and excellent glory made their guilt unpardonable.
He did not spear the angels that fell.
You know why?
They lived in a perfect heaven.
They saw the goodness of Christ.
They saw his perfect character and they believed Lucifer's lies.
Let me tell you something.
We talk about this all the time.
The great controversy is an argument about God's character.
Interestingly enough, in a sense, the one on trial in all we're doing is really God.
Satan made the accusation that God is not fair.
His law cannot be kept.
Satan was upset that he was not allowed into the creation process for earth.
Satan had all kinds of bones to pick with God.
But Satan used to be one of the angels that covered.
He was high and exalted.
And he convinced a third of the angels that God was not good.
God was not fair.
Let me tell you something that's what the world is trying to convince you of today.
every Marvel movie made.
Step on somebody toes now.
All these Marvel and DC movies, the people who make those movies have come out and said that the villains that they create are actually different manifestations of the God of heaven of Jehovah.
Oh, y'all missing this thing.
So when you watch Thanos, ready to destroy half the world, they are playing on the fact that God is going to come back and destroy the world.
When they say, and I used to read comics when I was little, I don't watch those movies much anymore, the Galactus was going to, you know, he's like a planet eater.
They said, that's supposed to be like Jehovah every single one of them.
And so they make the heroes now darker and darker.
And what they're doing is flipping the great controversy, switching it up so that you will root against the God of heaven.
I hear young people all the time telling me, you know, God is in fear.
God didn't do this.
God, I say, man, you are speaking Satan's language.
Their guilt was unpardonable.
And let me let you in on a secret.
They're one of the reasons the devil wants you dead so much.
The reason he wants you lost.
The reason young person, he wants to trick you into following the world and losing out on the heritage that God has for you is because the devil is mad that you can take one of their spots in heaven.
He's mad that you still have an opportunity to live eternally in bliss with the creator of the universe.
And he has been cast down.
Do not take that position lightly.
They were not forgiven.
Number one, Sodom and Gomorrah was not spared because of their pride and led to sin.
Israel, not spared because she broke the covenant and forgot God.
The world before the flood was not spared.
Number three, because of appetite and violence, perverted appetite.
Number four, the angels, the entire universe in a sense, was not spared in defense of God's law and his character.
It starts to sound bleak.
Romans 8.31 says this.
This is our scripture reading.
What shall we then say to these things?
If God be for us, who can be against us?
And here it is, church.
Verse 32.
You see the fifth time that God spared not.
God spared not his own son.
so that I would have a chance at wearing that crown one day.
So that I don't have to fill a seat in the lake of fire.
God spared not His own sun church.
This holiday season, as you think about gifts and what's been given, I submit to you, no greater gift has been given than the gift of Jesus Christ to ransom lost man.
For God so loved the world.
that he gave he gifted his only begotten son that whosoever should believe in him would not perish but have what everlasting life.
Somebody came in here today and you think your sins are so terrible that you can't be saved.
That is the devil speaking to you.
And I know what it is.
The devil wants to remind you of everything you've ever done wrong.
The devil wants you to think you are what you were at your worst time in your life.
I came to tell you today, the devil is a liar.
God spared not his son.
I say this all the time.
When the devil reminds you of your past, I want you to remind him of his future.
Remind him of what Jesus is doing for you right now.
My Bible tells me that when the fifth time God did not spare his own son.
Let's look at a few verses, a few quotes.
Sorry, testimony to the church, volume seven, page 29 says this, as this wonderful priceless gift was bestowed, the whole heavenly universe was mightily stirred in an effort to understand God's unfathomable love stirred to awaken in human hearts a gratitude proportionate to the value of the gift.
Shall we?
for whom Christ has given his life, halt between two opinions.
Shall we return to God only a might of the capabilities and powers lent us by him?
Our church has to be on fire doing for God because of what he did for us.
It says here, how can we do this while
We know that he was a commander of all heaven laid aside his royal robe and kingly crown and realizing the helplessness of the fallen race came to this earth in human nature to make it possible for us to unite our humanity to his divinity.
He became poor that we might come under possession of the heavenly treasure.
A far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory.
To rescue us, he descended from one humiliation to another until he, the divine human suffering Christ was uplifted on the cross to draw all men to himself.
The son of God could not have shown greater condescension than he did.
He could not have stooped any lower.
He came all the way down.
He saves from the gutter most.
to the uttermost.
He stooped as far down as he could go so that you and I would have an opportunity at eternal life.
Let me tell you something.
I don't take his sacrifice for granted.
In fact, when life gets difficult for me, when trial comes my way, I focus on what Christ did for me, all he suffered through.
I think about how far he came to be born in a manger in Bethlehem.
Without the cross, as the Bible commentary, without the cross, man can have no connection with the father.
On it hangs our every hope.
In view of it, the Christian may advance with steps of a conqueror, for from it streams the light of the Savior's love.
When the sinner reaches the cross and looks up to the one who died to save him, he may rejoice with fullness of joy, for his sins are what?
His sins are pardoned.
Let me warn you.
One of the things that devil is going to do in the last days is convince you that you have not been forgiven of your sins.
Oh, don't list this.
If you don't believe you've been forgiven, you become stuck and the devil himself begins to play games with you.
In fact, Ellen White says that if you don't believe you've been forgiven of sin, Satan sends you away from God back into a life of sin and prepares you for the mark of the beast.
Church, you've been forgiven.
I use this analogy all the time.
When you wash clothes and you have your washing machine and you throw in the tide, the bleach, the whatever you throw in there, and you start that washing machine going, nobody walks away from the washing machine and says, I wonder if that thing is
if that tide is working on my clothes.
You're not walking around the house scratching the head, man.
I sure hope that bleach works.
Why do you have more faith and tide and Clorox than in the blood of Jesus Christ?
Who the sun sets free is free indeed.
My Bible says if we confess our faults, our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to do what?
And to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
This is the beauty of Christianity church.
This is why I'm a Christian.
There's no other religion like this religion.
If you're a Hindu, you've got to work your way into Nirvana.
And if you don't make it the first time, according to religion, you get sent back and you got to come back as a lower form and work through your karma.
And you can be so bad you come back as like a slug or a grasshopper or something.
I don't want to be a grasshopper.
In Islam, there are five
and you got to follow the five pillars, you got to work out your own salvation, and you still got to go to a purgatory and burn before they let you into paradise.
Catholicism says if you weren't perfect, you got to go to purgatory and be chastised, punished, purged before you get to glory.
But that's not what the Bible teaches.
The Bible says that if I am faithful in confessing my sins and repenting from them,
The blood of Jesus will wash me clean and I will stand before God the father in the righteousness of his son.
And I will get what Jesus deserves will be given to me.
That word imputed comes back.
His righteousness then is imputed to me.
She says kneeling at the cross, the sinner has reached the highest place to which man can attain.
The light of the knowledge of the glory of God is revealed in the face of Jesus Christ.
And the words of pardon are spoken.
Live, O ye guilty sinners, live.
Your repentance is accepted for I have what?
I have found a ransom.
The good news this Sabbath is that a ransom has been found.
Jesus has paid the price.
We are now
able to live the life he deserves because he died the death we deserved.
That's Christianity friends.
Yes, God did not spare all those times, but I'm so glad that in the final analysis, he didn't spare his son.
Second Peter three and verse nine says this, the Lord is not slack concerning his promise.
As some men count slackness, but as long suffering towards us,
Not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance.
Christ was not spared so that you and I could be.
And what I want to tell you is that in my own spiritual walk, in my own spiritual struggles over the course of my life, there were times I took that sacrifice for granted.
But my God would step in
and deliver me.
I mean, you saw the children's story with that car accident.
Let me tell you something.
There were times I should have been wiped out.
I was in a nightclub I shouldn't have been in and the bullets start flying or the bottles start flying and I could have been wiped out.
I'm so glad that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.
He spared not his son.
And because of that, church, I want to surrender everything I have to him.
I want to surrender every part of me to Him, everything I own to Him, my children to Him, I surrender all.
As my wife sings this song, you want to surrender this Christmas season to stand as it's sung.
This media was brought to you by Audioverse, a website dedicated to spreading God's word through free sermon audio and much more.
If you would like to know more about Audioverse,
Or if you would like to listen to more sermons, please visit www.audioverse.org.